Typically, when we're talking about
prototyping, especially with AI tools,
we're usually talking about building
things that are just on the client. The
main difference between that and you
know like a full stack application is
usually the combination of adding in
like a server and a database. You're
going to have things like your your
email integration, file or blob storage
as well, right? Payment is pretty
typical with Stripe. You have to have OH
of some kind and product analytics of
some kind and then some type of log
analytics.
>> That's like a lot of stuff to Vive Code,
man. That's a lot.
>> So, if you tried to deploy this app, it
wouldn't work. you have a a request to
the back end, right, from your client
side to generate the image um to this
endpoint that you made API transform,
but it's sending it right to local host
3001. So, these are some good examples
of like the types of things that AI can
make mistakes on. What I built is a
little template um that has like what I
think are the most common necessary
features to build a SAS project. So,
basically, let's recap the steps, okay,
to build a real product.
Okay, welcome everyone. Uh today, my
guest is Colin Matthews, the one and
only. Uh Colin is a good friend. He's
taught a lot of students how to build
stuff with AI and and like build real
not not just like random
prototypes, like real real stuff, real
apps that you can actually uh get paying
customers for. So that's what we're
going to talk about today. Like I vibe
coded a pretty crappy um nano banana um
image prototyper thing and then me and
Colin are going to convert that into a
real SAS app. Okay. So welcome Colin.
>> Yeah, happy to be back. I think it's my
third time now.
>> Yeah. Great. All right. So um why don't
you start by talking about what the
difference between a vibe coded
prototype and a app is.
>> Sure. Yeah. So I actually have a quick
visual to help us out here. Let me share
my screen really quick. So uh if you've
heard me talk about software at all, you
probably seen me talk about this before.
Client servers and databases. So
typically when we're talking about
prototyping, especially with AI tools,
we're usually talking about building
things that are just on the client. So
like this is what you see in the UI,
right? So if I build something in like
bolt or replet or or lovable, a lot of
the time and the attention is actually
spent on like getting it to look correct
and making it like feel good and all
that kind of stuff. Um the main
difference between that and you know
like a full stack application is usually
uh the combination of adding in like a
server and a database. So something to
handle like application logic things
like how users log in and that kind of
stuff as well as obviously storing data
over time. And then the only other major
thing that people like to add usually is
like thirdparty integrations, right? So
this would be things like you know your
Gmail integration or something something
similar and usually that's talking to
your server. So these are kind of the
main components like prototype really
just a pretty picture right just the
client uh full stack app client server
database and then uh some thirdparty
integrations typically.
>> But when it comes to like a SAS app
there's usually it's like a set of
common features that most of these apps
have right like like
>> Yeah, exactly. So we can kind of pull
pull some of those in here. But uh
typically you're going to have things
like your your email integration, right?
So that's going to be like a third
party. So you can send transactional
emails. You might have like file or blob
storage as well, right? Uh payment is
pretty typical with Stripe. You have to
have O of some kind. And usually you
don't want to roll your own O, meaning
like you don't build it yourself. You
use pre-existing O tools.
>> And then kind of I would say a bare
minimum in terms of like the product and
engineering side, you want to have
product analytics of some kind. So
understand using us user behavior and
then some type of log analytics and this
is specific to errors. So like if you're
familiar with the tool centry that's
what I'm talking about but like
capturing errors in the product.
>> Got it. Okay. Yeah that that that's like
a lot of stuff to vive code man. That's
a lot.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you actually show the vibe coder
thing that I have?
>> Sure. Yeah. Right now we have uh like a
well I guess you can explain it if you'd
prefer.
>> Yeah. This is my um really amazing
headshot pro AI app. You can see it's
very professional. Um, basically you can
upload a headsh shot and then it will
use Google Nano Banana to generate a
more professional looking headsh shot of
yourself and hopefully it still works.
Did you try it to make sure it works?
>> Yeah. [laughter] Yeah, it works. It
works.
>> Okay, it still works. Okay, great.
>> Yeah. And how did you build this? Just
curious.
>> Oh, that was good, man. Yeah. Um,
>> perfect.
>> I How did I build this? I use uh clock
code and just like by coded it and and
then I had to give it like a bunch of
instructions to use Gemini's APIs and
like a bunch of documentation. Yeah,
>> I I was able to get it to work. There's
actually a tutorial that I can link to
uh if you want to vive coat this. Yes.
>> Oh, perfect. Yeah. Yeah. I was just
going to comment like you can perfectly
see why I no longer have hair based on
this image. [laughter]
>> The hairline's pretty far back. I think
the AI got that right. Um but
>> so um yeah, so this this I would say is
like closerish to a prototype um
>> in that like you don't have all those
extra things. And then also just for
fun, we'll do like a quick review of of
your code. So you do have a front end
and a back end, right? So you have you
have a client and you have a server uh
which is already like one step up
because you don't necessarily need to
have a server for this type of
application if you're just running it
locally. Um but you know you have that
working which is great. Um and then
there's just a couple of like things
though we'll just try to point out a few
on the back end here in terms of like
how things are working. So if we hop
into like your your Gemini stuff you can
see like here's your prompt and all that
good stuff, right? So, you probably
wrote Did you write this prompt manually
or did did AI generate this for you?
>> Uh, I worked with AI to write the
prompt. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Cool. And then it's sending the
request over to to Gemini and doing all
this this good stuff. And honestly, like
this is fine because this is just that
kind of third party integration step
that we talked about a second ago,
right? Like sending a request over to
Google and getting the results back. Not
a huge deal in terms of like the overall
setup. So, there are some things that
are like are are a little bit off. Uh,
let's see if I can find a good example
here. Let's go into this one here. So,
one like good example is that your
images are B 64 encoded text. Like
usually you reference a file, but it's
just a super long text string that like
the preview images that you have or like
mock images. So, it's like kind of a
weird AI thing. Um, not necessarily like
super incorrect, but kind of like a an
odd thing to do in terms of a decision
to make. Um, and then another good one,
let's see if I can find it in here. I
think we have a local host somewhere.
you actually have I believe the the
local host URL um directly in the code
somewhere see [laughter]
>> yeah so well basically yeah right here
so what that means is like you have a a
request to the back end right from your
client side to generate the image um to
this endpoint that you made API
transform but it's sending it right to
local host 3001 so if you tried to
deploy this app it wouldn't work um and
>> you mean local host doesn't work
[laughter]
>> yeah yeah so these are some good
examples of like the types of things
that AI even when like you're building
something that's a bit more complex, uh,
can make mistakes on, right? And like
just some small small things that you
you'd want to fix or change.
>> Okay.
>> Um, and then obviously like the big
thing would be adding like off and
stripe and all the other things you
talked about, right? Um,
>> yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So, so you have this
template, right, where you actually
added all this stuff. Can you show show
it to us?
>> Yeah, for sure. So, what I built uh is a
little a little template that has like
what I think are the most common
necessary features to build a SAS
project. So, the template itself is just
a to-do list. Uh the intent would be
that like, you know, you replace this
page with whatever you're building. Um,
but you can see that it has like
pricing, right? And we can go and
upgrade to pro. That'll send us over to
Stripe uh to actually complete the
purchase. It comes with uh our obviously
like login and stuff. Let me just hop
back over here. Login. So, you can sign
in and sign out. Right now, it's using
Google O for that. You can also set up
with like GitHub off or really whatever
you want.
and then also comes with an AI chat. And
actually, I'm in the process of swapping
this over to the new agent kit from
OpenAI as the back end. So, that'll be
kind of fun. Uh, and then also on the
settings side, you can, you know, like
toggle your email preferences. And it
comes with an integration with Send
Grid. Uh, and then also like the other
stuff like I mentioned, so like Post Hog
for product analytics and for error
capture and some other like small things
behind the scenes.
>> Um, and sorry, did you mention there's a
way to get paid like a pivot?
>> Oh, yeah, for sure. Yeah. So you
basically you just set up whatever you
want and you just prompt like change
this text,
>> right? But uh yeah, you'd prompt or you
just throw in your Stripe ID and then
you can collect payment from Stripe.
>> Okay. All right, man. This episode is
brought to you by Composeio. Most of the
paying shipping AI features doesn't come
from the model, but from the
integrations you're dealing with messy
APIs, fragile tool calls, and hours lost
to debugging and figuring out why
something broke in Slack or Salesforce.
Composio gives you one SDK [music] to
connect to 800 plus apps like Slack,
GitHub, Gmail, Jira, and they built the
Rube.app that plugs all of those apps
straight into an AI chat. So you can
just ask pull me the latest metrics from
Mix Panel and update linear. Now instead
of fighting with APIs, you can focus on
actually shipping faster. Check it out
at getrube.link/per
or the link in the video description.
Now back to the episode. Why don't you
start a process of putting this thing
like putting my vibe coded thing in here
and then we can talk about some other
topics while while it's trying to
program.
>> Yeah, that sounds good. So, basically
we're going to try to convert your
prototype to a full stack app. Right.
>> That's right.
>> Um, cool. So, I'm going to start by
actually taking a look at what your code
here and I just want to quickly break
down uh what your code is so people have
a general sense of like how this works.
So, you can actually see you have these
two folders, right? So, you have backend
and front end code. backend code. This
is your server side code like we talked
about, right? So, this is really just
the integration with Gemini. There's
really not much else going on here.
We'll probably copy your prompts so that
we maintain the prompts the same way.
Everything else I honestly will just
have the AI regenerate this code because
there's nothing like super useful. It's
just a call to the LLM to Gemini to to
generate the image.
>> Okay.
>> Um, and then on the front end, you can
see in the front end you have different
kind of like elements in here. One of
those elements is components. So you
have like a style selector component, a
result display, an image uploader, and a
download button. And then you kind of
have like this main file called app.jsx
that just imports all these components
and kind of puts them in the page. Kind
of like Legos, right? So like we have
all these individual Legos and you're
assembling those Legos in the page. Uh
so what I can really easily do and what
anyone can do is take the components
that you built and bring those with us
into the full stack app if we want to.
So we can try to maintain like some of
the visual styling of what you have in
the prototype.
>> Okay. I think it's up to I'm I'm not
that proud of the V visual sliding, but
yeah, that's up to you.
>> Yeah, we'll we'll try to we'll try to
keep it uh just for fun. So, um cool.
Let's go ahead and start kind of moving
this over. And literally what I'm going
to do is I'm going to go like this on
this side, like go like this on this
side. And you can see this is the
template by the way that the code I have
over here. And you'll see a very similar
kind of structure. So, we have the
client side code. We have server code,
right? Uh same as you client like front
end and back end. And then in the
client, if we go into here, we'll see a
folder called components, right? So this
this pattern will repeat itself all the
time of like how your code is organized.
So I'm going to create a new folder here
called Peter components.
And I'm literally just going to drag
over your files. Um and that's that's
all we need to do. And you by the way
you can do this also with like
cloud-based tools. So like replet allows
you to drag in files and like right into
the the file system and you can just
bring in your components maybe build the
prototype in like v 0ero and you want to
you know uh make it better in in replet.
uh you can move stuff around in the in
the same way.
>> Okay. So, uh what else? Yeah.
>> Yeah. I did also ask it to build us a
little spec based on uh your stuff here.
So, let me just close this down a little
bit and see what we have. So, I just
asked it to generate, you know, a MD
file for rebuilding your thing. Uh just
basically describing the requirements
were so I didn't have to rewrite it all.
So, this currently a prototype
application. We're going to rebuild it.
I'm going to get rid of some of the um
or like modify some of this.
Specifically, I'm going to say that the
components are in Peter components
because we just made that folder.
And yeah, I'm going to kind of get rid
of a lot of the backend service stuff
that you have already. Um,
just because we can kind of clean up
some of this ourselves.
The rest of this looks fine. Oh, yeah,
and it automatically extracted your
prompts, which is nice.
>> And yeah, I think that's pretty much it.
So, I'm going to again delete some of
this.
Yeah, we we'll get rid of a lot of this
extra stuff. This is a lot of code and
just stuff I don't really need. I just
really need this top part here. And this
is going to become our prompt. So, I'm
going to basically take this head over
to our, you know, actual application uh
and throw this into cloud. And I I mean
I know you've done tutorials on cloud
code so I probably won't spend a
ridiculous amount of time on like
explaining cloud code. But I am going to
put it on plan mode first. Um just so
that I make sure that the result that we
get you know aligns to what we're
expecting before we kick it off.
>> Okay that's awesome. Uh okay so so just
to recap you drag and drop some
component files into your temp template.
>> Yep. And uh you in my original uh
repository you ask claw to generate MD
file and and the prompt is like hey you
know if I want to rebuild this somewhere
else like what do I need right?
>> Yeah exactly.
>> Okay and then and then it magically
included a prompts in the MD file.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It just extracted all the
well I would say all the important stuff
and probably a lot of non-important
stuff. Um so you can see like I deleted
it was 800 lines cuz Claude likes to
talk. I think I got it down to 80 lines.
Um it was just I just needed the spec. I
didn't need the you know the whole thing
all your existing code. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Got it. Got it. Okay. Cool.
>> So let's just do a quick read through.
And actually I think this will be really
interesting to kind of like illustrate
the difference between um the prototype,
right, and what we actually have in a
production application. So the first
thing it says is that we need to change
the database schema, right? So this is
how we're storing information inside the
database. And let me just see if I can
run something really quick to make this
feel a little bit more real. Uh give me
one sec. Cool. So this is like a
database explorer that you can run
locally on your computer if you're using
the template or the same kind of
technology or you know tools that I'm
using. And so when we talk about
changing the schema what we're referring
to is like right now in this database
there is nowhere to store anything that
is relevant to this these requirements
right like we have uh items for the
to-do list we have user information so
like my email and my ID we have file
storage and that's it. So the first
thing Claude is telling us that we have
to do and this is a very common thing
that you need to do is to change the
database. So we need a saying we need a
headshots table. We also need a credits
table to track user credits. Um I'm
probably going to modify the plan a
little bit because I don't actually care
about tracking user credits. So I'll say
don't need to track
user credits at least for now. And then
let's see what else we got. We have the
backend routes that need to be built.
And you're going to see a couple of good
things here, right? So we're going to
require authentication. This is one like
critical thing whenever you're building
a full stack app. Every backend endpoint
should be checking is the user logged in
and are they allowed to perform this
action. Yeah.
>> Right. So this is another kind of main
difference between just a vioded
prototype and building something real.
Uh and then it looks like everything
else is pretty similar right like um all
that stuff there. I am going to say like
we don't need to upload the image to
file firebase storage. So don't store
your files in Firebase storage
just to keep things simpler for now. for
file storage. Uh let's see what else
here. And then front end integration.
It's going to build a page for the head
shot. Uh it's going to use your existing
components that we already have.
Integrate authentication, all that good
stuff. Credit checks. U payment
integration. So we already have the
payment plan. It's going to put three
head shot per month for free. That's
fine. Um Gemini integration, the file
storage integration to store the files
over time. I'm gonna skip this one just
for the sake of time, but obviously like
we would want to store the images over
time, right, for the user.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And then also really important unit
tests. So just in case people aren't
familiar, typically you'd want to write
unit tests against code so that you can
automatically run these tests and that
way uh when the AI make changes makes
changes, you can test if things are
broken. So unit tests are a way to like
avoid manual testing all the time,
right?
>> So it's going to write some unit test
for us as well and then actually apply
the database migration changes. So what
basically what this means is like we
will have new code but we actually need
to apply that code to the database to
make the database have a different
schema. We can't just like have the code
be different than the real database. We
need to apply that change.
>> Got it. Yeah.
>> Um and yeah, that's pretty much it. So
I'll go ahead and kick this off. Um and
I'll just say give me back an updated
plan
and go from there. So, you're gonna
you're gonna do all these steps at once
or
>> Well, I mean, I'm gonna try to let Claw
do all these steps at once. Yeah.
Honestly, like this change seems kind of
big, but it's really not. It's just a
Gemini integration. Um, yeah. One of the
cool things, by the way, about having a
template like this, you don't have to
use my template, just generally, is that
Claude is making better decisions
because of the existing patterns in the
codebase
>> on how things work, right? like it's not
inferring how the back end should be set
up or inferring how tests should be set
up. It's looking at examples of how
things are set up already. And so it
makes it a lot easier actually to do
like changes like this where it feels
complicated, but it's actually just
copying existing patterns.
>> Cool. Uh let me just give this a peruse.
All right. Well, I'm not going to read
this whole thing. So hopefully hopefully
this works. So we're going to say yes,
and then it'll do its thing.
>> And you're using uh VS Code, right? just
because it has like a native integration
of C call code.
>> Yeah, it's just a little bit nicer from
like a UX perspective than the the
terminal, right? So like you get this
nice little markdown editor. Um and you
can kind of scroll up and down with the
text at the bottom there like the input.
So it's just a little bit cleaner.
>> Yeah, that that is cleaner.
>> Yeah.
>> Um Okay, cool. So it's going to work for
a while now, right?
>> Yes. As you can see, we have uh about a
dozen to-d doist uh to work through. So
this will probably take a minute. Okay.
So, let's let's go talk about some other
things while what this does its job.
>> So, let's go back to your uh exact to
draw thing. Yeah. All right. So, let's
talk about So, we did a previous uh
video on like our favorite AI coding
tools, right?
>> Yeah.
>> But, but now I think there's like a lot
more out out there and and like I think
you prepared some diagrams about the
difference between some of these
prototyping vibe coding tools.
>> Yeah, exactly. So um I guess to start
with like some pretty popular ones,
Lovable and Bolt are a few others
actually nowadays too. They're all using
Superbase on the back end. So even this
is kind of fun for the folks who don't
know is Lovable and Bolt just announced
their own clouds, right? So like
literally I think a week ago now or
maybe two weeks they're like oh yeah you
can integrate directly with our own
backend services. What really happened
is Superbase released a feature that
allows companies to white label
Superbase inside their products. Uh, and
so it's still it's still literally
Subbase and even if you look at the
code, it literally references Subase
inside the code.
>> Um, so
>> so it's like a branding thing.
>> It's 100% a branding thing. There is no
there's literally no difference in the
features, functionality or anything
between the prior existence of, you
know, Bolt integrating with Suabase or
Lovable and what you have today. It is
exactly the same.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah. It's kind of funny because like
the the people that these these
companies are targeting like they
probably have no clue what the hell a
cloud or superbase is.
>> Yeah, it's kind of
>> I agreed. I think it's just like um I
think a lot of it is just
competitiveness in terms of like oh this
is the best tool cuz we have our own
back end or this is the best tool
because we have the best Figma
integration.
>> Um but anyway, one of the things that's
interesting about these tools so
specifically using Superbase as a
backend is that uh by default they
actually don't have a server. So if we
go back up to like this pattern that we
talked about so far,
>> the way that they work is basically
Superbase controls the server for you.
So there's kind of like this little thin
layer at the back here where um every
table that you have in your database
automatically gets a corresponding API
endpoint. Basically meaning they they
autogenerate the server for you, but you
don't control that server. And so on one
hand that's really interesting and cool
because that means that you don't have
to write any of the server side code,
right? On the other hand, one of the
downsides about that is that you don't
have to you don't have the ability to
modify any of the serverside code like
it's autogenerated. Um, and so
especially from a security perspective,
this becomes a problem. And so they have
this system called RLS, which is
basically a configuration system for who
should be able to access what. Uh,
because the server would typically
handle that in like the normal stack
that we have. It would decide like is
the user allowed to perform this action.
Uh, but that doesn't exist in this
context. And one really interesting
thing is that by default u the RLS rules
for every superb based project you set
up are completely open. So any user can
access any information and and this is
like the primary driver behind why you
hear about like vibe coded tools being
insecure is because people are building
on top of this system and they have no
idea that RS or any of this stuff even
exists and that they've built on top of
it or how to modify it or improve it,
right? Like how to configure it
correctly. And so they're building these
systems that like are not secure because
you know it's not that superbase is
inherently bad. It's just that like
>> you don't know what's actually happening
behind the scenes.
>> Wait, wait, wait. So, so what is what
what what does RLS stand for? Or is that
like an acronym?
>> Yeah. Um, you know what? I can't
remember off the top of my head, but
it's something like a it's like rules
and some type of rulebased access
system. Um,
>> okay. And then and then if I go like is
there some sort of set settings or thing
for me to change this stuff? Yeah,
exactly. So, inside of these tools, um,
if you prompt them to like ask about
your RLS rules, they will tell you what
they are, but by def by default, it is
completely open and then you have to
configure it to to be correct. So, one
like lovable did add a thing where like
if you publish your application, they'll
pop up a warning and say like, hey,
anyone can access the data in your
product right now. Do you want to do you
want to change that? Um, and then you
basically try to prompt your way to this
these rules, but again, like you're
reliant on the AI to configure it
correctly. Um, which is a little bit
scary.
>> That's kind of crazy. Crazy. So, okay.
So, if I build a app using these tools
and then uh like let's say I have a user
table with like the user information,
right? Because people sign up and stuff.
>> So, you're saying that anyone can just
get the email for all the
>> users? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. By default.
Yeah.
>> That's crazy, dude.
>> So, it it requires the user to like the
person authoring the the project like
you know the user level or bolt to
modify those rules and set them up
correctly. Um, but I guess my point here
is that like the vast majority of people
using these tools don't know those rules
even exist, right?
>> But why why why doesn't Lovable and B
fix the stuff? They don't know which
table's which or something.
>> Uh, it's more so that like this is just
how Superbase works that like because
they're trying to make it simple by not
having you have a server. You still have
to have a server though in order to
access the data in the database. And so
this is the simple version which is like
you use a rule system instead of
actually having code. Um but again I
think it's actually more complex or like
more difficult to understand for the
average person whereas I think like if
you have this um it becomes a lot more
clear like if there's issues in the
server where those issues are.
>> Yeah. I mean like I I don't think it's
too difficult to set up a server right
like especially if you have like some
very powerful model to do it for you.
>> Yeah. No no it's not difficult at all.
Um, okay. And hosting is pretty
straightforward and all that kind of
stuff, right? You can host on like
versel or render. Even Replet, like this
is the stack replet uses as well behind
the scenes.
>> Um, so Replet I would say is like I
that's one of the reasons I prefer
Replet is because um not because of like
the AI coding tools or anything like
that. It's literally like what stack are
they using and how how likely is it that
someone's going to make a mistake that
they're going to really regret,
>> right?
>> Wow.
>> Uh, this is very this is like new news
to me. I I didn't know about any of
this.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty
interesting. I mean like I built an app
on lovable the other day and it did fine
but like uh you know I had to go through
and configure the ROS rules to make sure
that everything was correct. So you know
>> Wow. Okay. All right. Well, maybe we
should email the loable people.
>> Oh, they all know. They all know. Um
yeah, if you again if you've read
anything online about like five coding
tools being insecure.
>> Yeah.
>> Um this this is the thing that is like
the primary security vulnerability.
There's lots of other stuff that people
make mistakes with,
>> but this is the primary one.
>> Wow. Okay. Okay. Okay. I have a hot hot
take. Like I feel like even as complete
nontechnical person like I I don't think
like clock coder or cursor or whatever
these these like more advanced tools are
actually that hard to use. Like you're
literally just like typing to chat,
right?
>> Yep.
>> I mean I don't actually think they're
actually much more hard to use than uh
some of this like web- based tools.
>> Yeah, I would agree for sure. I think um
again like part of the part of the job
of like a level or something like that
is to convince you that the complexity
is low so you feel like you can do it.
>> Yeah. Right. But again, if we go back
like kind of the image up above, at some
point in time, like you will need to add
payment and they have a Stripe
integration, but like you still need to
go into Stripe and set it all up. You'll
have to add email. You have to add like
and if you don't understand how these
systems work, I think at the end of the
day, like when you have a bug with your
email system and the only thing you can
do is like promptable to say fix my
email system like that's that's the
challenging part, right? And so like um
not to try to dissuade anyone from doing
this type of work because obviously I
think everyone should try and learn but
at the same time I think it's important
to to not treat it as like I want to get
to the outcome as fast as possible.
>> Yeah.
>> And I don't care at all about how
anything is working and more so to say
like okay like how does this actually
work behind the scenes and try to learn
some of that stuff.
>> Got it. Okay cool. Do you want to check
VS Code see if things are generated?
>> Yeah. Um so let's see. We want to
generate and apply database migration.
So this is actually interesting. Uh we
kind of got stuck here. must have asked
for permission a little bit while ago
but um it's asking us to apply a change
to the database. This is another really
good thing uh in terms of a pattern
because typically what happens is most
AI coding tools will just modify your
database directly which is terrifying.
What this is doing is it's generating a
file to basically tell us what it's
going to change and then we apply that
change and it makes it easy to make sure
that our databases are always kind of
like in sync and up to date. So this is
something called migration. And again,
this is like a pattern that you'd want
to learn and and consistently do rather
than just allowing like an AI agent to
write SQL queries against your database
and just change anything at any point in
time. That's a little bit terrifying.
And again, that's the default pattern.
>> Uh yeah, because if you scrub the UI,
you can change it back pretty easy, but
you scrub the database is harder, right,
to
>> Yeah. Yeah. And even like with undos, I
know a lot of people are reliant on like
trying stuff and undoing it. Uh you
can't undo a database change the same
way you can undo a code change.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Right. So, generally speaking, you want
to be like a little bit more certain
that, you know, things are going to
work.
>> Yeah. So, so, so you don't dangerously
skip permissions.
>> No, no, no, I don't. Um, cool. So, it's
going to run through this. I'm going
probably have to pay attention for a
second as it installs some stuff. Um,
>> okay. And you have like a database. The
reason it's doing this is because you
already set up a database with your
template that has like some basic
tables.
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So, we have a
database that has like the user storage
information that has the Stripe
integration. So it stores like the
relevant stripe IDs and stuff like that.
So again like the template is there.
It's not I'm not going to claim that
it's like a prerequisite obviously like
you don't need it. Um but the purpose of
it is to like help people avoid common
mistakes especially on the security
front. And maybe this is interesting
while we're waiting. I actually had the
the pentest or had the the template
pentested by security firm um before you
know I gave it to anyone just for fun.
>> What is a pentest?
>> Oh sure. Yeah great question. So
basically uh it is a it's like a
security review where they attempt to
extract information from your website or
from your app
>> and there's like a bunch of very common
attack patterns that attackers use and
so they run through all those attack
patterns against your application and
see what they can what basically what
they can exploit. Um and then at the end
they kind of give you a report on like
what you need to update or modify in
order to be secure.
>> Is that like a lot of money to do a pent
test?
>> Uh it's like a couple thousand dollars.
>> Okay. Okay. Wow. Okay. So you gota be
serious. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah, for me like if I'm going to
give the code to people then, you know,
like it's my template multiplied by
a,000 or 2,000 or 5,000 times,
>> it's worth it to spend a couple thousand
to make sure that I'm giving people
secure code.
>> Um, for the average person, probably a
little bit out of reach.
>> Got it. Okay.
>> All right. We are back and here's what
we have. So, what it did is actually
added it to the navbar, right? It didn't
necessarily replace what we had. That's
okay. We could, you know, ask it to to
take some stuff out later. Um, but
theoretically, so let's just take a look
quickly at the UI and then we'll try to
see if it actually works. Um, so in
pricing, it did not update our pricing
page looks like. Um, so no no head shot.
I don't see anything here. That's okay.
And then in the headshots here though,
we do have like a counter for the number
used this month. And let's give it a
try. One thing you'll notice is like
it's using your components, right? So
that that part worked.
>> Um, so we'll click choose image. We'll
grab our picture here. We have this guy
here. Generate headsh shot. And we'll
see if it works. Cool. Okay. So, new
error. Um, failed to generate not
supported. So, this is likely an error
because we didn't pass in the right
documentation. And again, this is where
like some debugging is obviously
helpful. So, if we just take a look at
this, we can see it says Gemini 2.0
flash XP image preview. So, this is
likely the the same issue that you had
before, Peter, which is like it's not
using the right model,
>> right?
>> And so, we're just going to go ahead and
Yeah. Uh this is actually a really
common painoint of LMS is like they
don't have upto-date information, right?
Like the training cutoff
>> and so they don't know how everything
works. Um so we're going to have to go
find the Gemini Nano Banana docs. Uh
let's see
this one here. And we're going to want
to pass in the relevant documentation
and just ask it to update it. So we're
doing uh image to image editing. And I'm
just basically going to copy the docs
here, paste this in, and say, uh, you're
using the wrong model.
And again, I'm going to turn on plan
mode because honestly, I I pretty much
never I don't know if you do, but I
never kick it off without doing plan
mode first. I always alternate between
planning and implementation.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, I just don't like the idea of like
letting it do a bunch of stuff on its
own. I have no idea what it's doing.
>> Okay. [snorts]
Um,
but does the rest of the the does the
SAS stuff work like like the O and
everything? It should be the same,
right?
>> Yep. Yeah, it still works. So, we can we
can hop back into that for a second. Um,
so let's go to here. So, we can sign
out. We can sign in. We can hop into our
pricing page in a second. Here we can
open up. We can upgrade to pro. I won't
actually obviously upgrade, but we have
our our pricing set up here. If we
wanted to change this, this would be
just like a setting in Stripe that we
change. We don't actually change the
code anywhere. Uh, and yes.
>> Okay. But to make this payment thing
work for for my stuff, I have to enter
my own Stripe information.
>> Exactly. So, you would have to enter in
your own Stripe keys, and that's just
part of the ENV file, like similar to
the API key that we have for Google. You
just put in your own like environment
variables, basically.
>> Okay, got it.
>> Yeah. Uh, cool. All right. So, it's
going to clean up our server basically.
wrong package, wrong model, all this
stuff. So, yeah, we could have probably
avoided this issue if we had um given it
the docs up front. But that's okay.
We'll clean up pretty quick.
>> I don't know, man. It it took me like a
good 20 minutes to get this thing to
work, so maybe I have better luck.
>> Yeah, I've I've also done this one
before. Um kind of like the the headshot
thing, and usually it just makes this
mistake of like not using the the
correct up-to-date information. Um, I
actually partially did this on purpose
because I think it's useful for people
to see like the loop of like we tried
something, it broke, we read why it
broke, right? It actually gave us like a
very useful error message if you just
read it. Um, immediately figured out
what the problem is, grabbed the
relevant information to fix it, pasted
it in, and then did it again.
>> Yeah, it's all this like installing
stuff or like picking the right version
that that's like a pain in the ass with
these pointing tools.
>> Yeah. Yeah, for sure. As an aside, by
the way, like some people might be
watching this and thinking like, "Oh,
wow. This is a lot more difficult than
lovable or both or something similar."
Um, and to that I would say like
generally I agree it's it's more
challenging, but I also think that like
one is you're learning how things
actually work. Uh, which is good. And
then two is like I do think those tools
have kind of a bar that that is, let's
say, lower. So, you can't get as far as
you can with some of these more like
power tools.
>> I mean, you're going to run into the
same API issue using level one bolt,
right? Because they have the same model
behind it.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um I do like cloud code better than like
the lovable agent and the and the bolt
agent. But yeah,
>> Bolt is recently switched to I think
bolt now you can use cloud and codeex
agents.
>> Yeah, inside the inside of Bolt. Yeah,
that's a pretty cool decision generally
to like try to try to go down that path.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Let's see what what we got here.
>> There we go.
>> Nice.
>> We have our head shot. So theoretically
we now have I mean we probably want to
delete some stuff in the template,
right? like the AI chat and some other
stuff. Um, but we now have our
professional headshot editor. We have to
like do some basic prompting to put in
our own logo and stuff. Um, maybe
rearrange the pages a little bit, but
uh, yeah, we used one out of five this
month.
>> Oh, you got to use my best template,
though. You're not using my best
template.
>> What's that? [laughter] Do you want me
to restart that whole thing?
>> No. Yeah. Can you just up upload a
picture again?
>> Sure. Uh, let's give it a try. So, let's
let's
>> You got the third one. The one on the
right.
>> Third one. Executive portrait. Okay. All
right. All right. Um,
>> there you go.
>> But yeah, so we also store your past
headsh shot in the database and we'll
take a look at the database in a second.
>> Um, here's our executive one. There you
go.
>> That looks good. Yeah, that looks
[laughter] good.
>> Yeah. So, yeah, let's take a look at the
database and let's just refresh here and
we'll see what tables we have. Right.
So, we have head shot. Now, we have a
new table
>> and it's storing the user ID and the
style. Um, and anything else? Maybe that
is it.
Wait. Uh, okay. Got that. That is it.
Okay, got it.
>> Yeah, I think that was the only change
that I made to the database. Uh, just
storing their their past history of like
using the tool. And if we head back
over, we can see that down below that
that's basically how this is showing up,
right? Our past head shot. As I
mentioned, I'm not storing the images
right now. I just wanted to do that to
save a little bit of time. But ideally,
we'd be storing the files for the images
as well.
>> But, uh, how did I know to just start
storing this stuff? it was part of your
uh
>> yeah so part part of the the template
includes all this like database access
patterns
>> okay
>> that are already in the code and so
generally speaking when you put in a
prompt it's going to follow the code
that's already there
>> okay
>> and so it just it just sets it up
following all the existing patterns and
everything works so that's why like it's
much easier to oneshot something on top
of an existing template than it is to
oneshot something from scratch
>> um because all this stuff already works
and one other thing just for fun and we
might be running short on time but um
let me pull this up I also have product
analytics hooked up to this already.
>> So we can see like our number of you
know daily active users and how many
times they're visiting and all this good
stuff um already inside of the the
template as well. So like you can kind
of as I said you know add in all these
third party integrations and all that
kind of good stuff uh to make this
[snorts] more like a real product and
less like you know a vi vibe coded
thing.
>> So basically let's recap the steps okay
to build a real product.
>> Sure. So, first of all, we got to use
your magical temp template, right?
[laughter]
>> I would say it's a good idea to use a
template and there's more than mine
available on the on the internet. So,
you know, find one that you like, but uh
yeah, template is a good idea.
>> Okay, we'll put a link to your template
or your course below this, but I think
there's also like free templates, right?
This is not just pure sell your course.
There actually is free SAS templates,
right?
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I mean, if you want
to use mine, obviously that's an option.
It comes included with the course. Um,
but there's free ones you can use as
well.
>> And just like search on GitHub or
something.
>> Yeah, I mean, Versell has some really
good ones. Um but if you generally if
you speak look Google like the
technology so it's going to be like you
know next.js boilerplate template or
node react template uh and it'll come
with all the stuff.
>> Okay. Got it. Okay. So number one is to
use the template. Number two is to like
start building in a template with like
you know uh some some some uh cursor or
VS code or something. Right.
>> And and and your preferred combination
right now is VS Code plus codeex.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know we demoed cloud
code here and it works pretty well, but
I'm using codeex more for especially for
larger code bases. I find it works
better. Um, but either either is fine. I
think cloud code or codeex.
>> Okay. And then number three is to uh
just to add a bunch of a API keys,
right? For for like um is is that it?
>> Well, I mean, I guess it depends on what
you're trying to do, but like yeah, so
you need your key for like Stripe uh for
payment. I assume you want that one. Uh
you need your O stuff for like your
Google login, right? Um, you probably
want file storage if you're doing
anything with files. So like yeah,
there's a couple of keys you need to
kind of add in for those things.
>> Got it. And then and then how do you put
this whole thing under interwebs? Like
how do you
>> Ah, yeah. Good question. Yes. So
typically I use a service called render
for deployments. Um, so what we would do
is we basically sync this code to
GitHub. We'd commit it back to GitHub
and then render would automatically
deploy it whenever we make an update in
GitHub. So that's that's one option.
Another option is like if that feels too
sophisticated, you can also use this
template inside of Replet and that's
what a lot of students are doing
currently in my cohort. So they're not
even doing any local setup. They're just
importing the template into Replet.
Replet gives them the database. Replet
gives them the server. They click a
button to publish. Um so they kind of
get the best of both worlds.
>> They first import template into Replet
or they import the whole the whole app
into Replet.
>> Yeah. Like the the the whole template
that I I we kind of went through and
modified, they import that whole thing
into Replet.
>> Okay. Okay. Got it. Okay. Got it. Got
it. Okay. Yeah.
>> Awesome, dude. All right. Looks like I
have to take your course again.
[laughter]
>> Yeah. One of the just just to plug it
just, you know, it's my job. Uh is the
course also comes with like dedicated
engineering support. So, I know it's
like a a challenge that a lot of people
have and I really tried my best to like
get rid of all of the barriers. So, as I
mentioned, like the template is
pentested for security. Uh you
engineering support. You get a template
so like you don't have to figure out the
Stripe integration yourself. And then
obviously there's it's an 8week course.
Um, so you have like plenty of support
and other students and all that good
stuff. So yeah.
>> Awesome, dude. And let me let me just
close on this, man. Like if you're
taking Colin's courses, like you should
really like the point of taking the
course is to actually build something
and hopefully like make some money
money, you know, from from your software
tool. Right.
>> Right. It's like, you know, don't don't
don't just take his courses to get
create credentials, you know?
>> Yeah.
>> So just keep that in mind.
>> Yeah. Maybe this is a bad thing for me
to say, but like I'm actually not a huge
fan of credentials, especially in
product or in tech like as a as a
mechanism of advancing your career. I
think the experience is what makes you
better, right? Like the skill. Uh so
that's the main thing is like learn the
skill and then like get a material
outcome like building yourself a side
project that makes some revenue.
>> That's way cooler than like having a
certificate. So that's my opinion
anyway.
>> But we went to see my SAS app to
generate certificates, dude. [laughter]
>> Yeah, there you go.
>> No, I'm just kidding.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool. All right, man. Well, thank thanks
for coming again. This is a great great
chat. Yeah.
>> And uh yeah, if you want to find Colin,
you can follow him on LinkedIn,
>> right?
>> Yep.
>> Is there anywhere else to follow you?
>> Substack. Yeah. Actually, I have my own
podcast. If you want to see people
building SAS apps, I interview them now.
Mostly PMs.
>> Okay.
>> Um so, it's called Built with AI on
YouTube right now. And I have to get the
Spotify thing up, but you can check that
out if you're interested.
>> And uh we also have a community
together, right?
>> Oh, yeah. We do for sure. Yeah, there's
that one, too. Uh we have like I think
we're almost 700 people strong now,
which is pretty cool.
>> Yeah. So, sign up for our newsletters if
you want to join our community.
>> Cool.
>> All right. Um, yeah, I think that's it.
Thanks so much, Colin.
>> All right.